NMS-13730: add discovery config docs from wiki (#3838)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc

</discovery-configuration>
----

[[ga-manual-discovery]]
== Manual discovery configuration

In addition to the configuration above, there are some optional settings you can configure via `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/discovery-configuration.xml`.

.Discovery configuration parameters
[options="header" cols="1,1,3"]
|===
| Name
| Default
| Description

| packets-per-second
| 1
| Number of ICMP packets that will be generated each second.

| initial-sleep-time
| 30000 ms (30 seconds)
| The time, in milliseconds, before the discovery process begins after OpenNMS has started.
This delay allows {page-component-title} to fully start before generating new events.

| restart-sleep-time
| 86400000 ms (1 day)
| Once the discovery process finishes, the time, in milliseconds, before it will start again.

| timeout
| 2000 ms
| The amount of time, in milliseconds, that the discovery process will wait for a response from a given IP address before deciding that there is nothing there.

| retries
| 1
| The number of attempts to query a given IP address before deciding that there is nothing there.

| foreign-source
| not set
| Adds discovered nodes to the specified foreign source requisition.

> | location

Reviewer: Is this a formatting issue?  No blank line between FS section and location section

Author: ```suggestion

| location
```

</discovery-configuration>
----

[[ga-manual-discovery]]
== Manual discovery configuration

> In addition to the configuration above, there are some optional settings that can be configured via `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/discovery-configuration.xml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the configuration above, there are some optional settings you can configure via `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/discovery-configuration.xml`.
```

.Discovery configuration parameters
[options="header" cols="1,1,3"]
|===
| Name
| Default
| Description

| packets-per-second
| 1

> | This is the number of ICMP packets that will be generated each second.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Number of ICMP packets that will be generated each second.
```

> Note that there is a relationship between the packets-per-second and the number of threads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that there is a relationship between the packets per second and the number of threads.
```

> If your network has an average latency of 500ms, then setting packets-per-second to 2 would double the speed at which NewSuspect messages were created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your network has an average latency of 500ms, then setting packets per second to 2 would double the speed at which NewSuspect messages are created.
```

> But if there is only one thread available, setting this number to 3 would have little effect - the single thread would be processing as many packets as it could as fast as it could.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But if there is only one thread available, setting this number to 3 would have little effect: the single thread would process as many packets as it could as fast as it could.
```

Author: But if there is only one thread available, setting this number to `3` would have little effect.
The single thread would process as many packets as it could as fast as it could.
```

> Note that there is a relationship between the packets-per-second and the number of threads.
> If your network has an average latency of 500ms, then setting packets-per-second to 2 would double the speed at which NewSuspect messages were created.
> But if there is only one thread available, setting this number to 3 would have little effect - the single thread would be processing as many packets as it could as fast as it could.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I would just leave this out, because I'm not sure how true it is today.

| initial-sleep-time
| 30000 ms (30 seconds)

> | The time, in milliseconds, before the discovery process will commence once OpenNMS is started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The time, in milliseconds, before the discovery process begins once OpenNMS is started.
```

Author: ```suggestion
| The time, in milliseconds, before the discovery process begins after OpenNMS has started.
```

This delay allows {page-component-title} to fully start before generating new events.

| restart-sleep-time
| 86400000 ms (1 day)

> | Once the discovery process has completed, the time, in milliseconds, before it will start again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Once the discovery process finishes, the time, in milliseconds, before it will start again.
```

| timeout
| 2000 ms
| The amount of time, in milliseconds, that the discovery process will wait for a response from a given IP address before deciding that there is nothing there.

| retries
| 1

> | The number of attempts that will be made to query a given IP address before deciding that there is nothing there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The number of attempts to query a given IP address before deciding that there is nothing there.
```

| foreign-source
| not set
| Adds discovered nodes to the specified foreign source requisition.

> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| chunk-size
| 100
| The default chunk size used to divide up IP ranges.

| location
| not set
| The minion location where this discovery configuration will be executed.
|==
```

Author: ```suggestion
| chunk-size
| 100
| The default chunk size used to divide up IP ranges between Minions.

| location
| not set
| The monitoring location where this discovery batch will be executed by Minions.
|===
```

.Discovery range configuration parameters
[options="header" cols="1,3a"]
|===
| Tag
| Description

| specific

> | Specify individual IP address(es) to be discovered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specify individual IP address(es) to discover.
```

May be repeated multiple times.

[source, xml]
----
<specific>ip-address</specific>
----

| include-range

> | Specify a range of IP addresses to be discovered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specify a range of IP addresses to discover.
```

May be repeated multiple times.

[source, xml]
----
<include-range>
    <begin>start-ip-address</begin>
    <end>end-ip-address</end>
</include-range>
----

| exclude-range

> | Specify a range of IP address to be excluded from discovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specify a range of IP address to exclude from discovery.
```

[source, xml]
----
<exclude-range>
    <begin>start-ip-address</begin>
    <end>end-ip-address</end>
</exclude-range>
----

> NOTE: The exclude-range tag will only override addresses in an include-range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: The exclude-range tag will override addresses only in an include-range.
```

It will not override specific IP addresses or addresses included in a file.
There is no "specific" version of the exclude tag.

> If you want to exclude a specific IP address, use an exclude-range where the beginning and ending IP addresses are the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To exclude a specific IP address, use an exclude-range where the beginning and ending IP addresses are the same.
```

| include-url

> | Specify the full path to a text file containing one IP address per line to be included in discovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specify the full path to a text file containing one IP address per line to include in discovery.
```

> Comments can be embedded in this file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can embed comments in this file.
```

> Any content on a line after a `#` character will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any content on a line after a `#` character is ignored.
```
